# Tutorial 6 - Splitting definition

The API client is working splendidly but it's also getting ugly.

The deep nesting is problematic and you'd often want to carve up definition into multiple parts, perhaps
strewn across multiple namespaces.

There often are parameters that repeat over and over again and we'd like to avoid specifying those.

In this tutorial we'll look at how to reduce repetition in definition.

## Defrest macro definition parameter

Up to this point we defined routes by passing a map literal to defrest macro. But there are other options:

Valid definition parameters any of the following: 

- map literal 
- a symbol naming a var that resolves to a map 
- a string, containing an URL naming the location of an EDN file. 

The URL can be any valid `java.net.URL` string such as `http://some/url` or `file:my-file.edn`.
Additionally `classpath:` urls are supported, such as `classpath:my-definition.edn`.
You can add custom protocols via the normal Java custom url handlers and cmd switch `-Djava.protocol.handler.pkgs=org.my.protocols`. 

Let's leverage this to reduce visual noise from nesting. 
When reading from a variable, the tricky part is that you have to quote symbols.

## Fragmenting the definition

Because we want to combine multiple variables, that means we can't just quote the whole thing.
Let's try that first:

### **[CODE: Definition split up](t6-reorg.clj)**

Take a look at the new definition. We've split the definition into subsections, but there's quite a bit of piece-meal quoting going on.

We can further improve our definition.

The definition format allows that everywhere that a symbol is allowed we can use a keyword instead. Because
keywords cannot have meta attached, we have to use `[:param-type :keyword-param-name]` pair where we want to specify the param type.

Using keywords removes the need to quote. 

You can also mix use of keywords and symbols. Not using quotes is important because we can easily
create functions that generate parts of definitions. 

### **[CODE: Definition with keywords](t6-keyworded.clj)** 

The linked file shows the same definition using keywords instead of symbols.

Lists have been replaced with vectors and since keywords cannot take metadata,
symbols and metadata have been replaced by pair vectors.

```clojure
^:key assignees
```

turns into

```clojure
[:key :assignees]
```

Another point of interest is schemas. Unfortunately the macro cannot work with schema objects,
so they need to be quoted. 

Having a parameter schema that is a keyword works normally i.e. `::milestone`.
A schema that is a predicate works as well i.e. `string?`. 

But things that evaluate to
schema objects like `(s/coll-of string?)` need to be quoted i.e.

```clojure
`(s/coll-of string?)
```

## Loading from EDN

You can construct definition by loading up an EDN. In case of EDN is it easy to use symbols
without having to quote things.

### **[CODE: EDN definition](t6.edn)**

Take a look at EDN definition at its tags.

`defrest` macro uses clj-rest-client.edn function `load-from-url` function to load EDN
 (although you can load from EDN yourself using any method you like and submit that as a map). 
 
 That function enables you to specify your own readers,
 while providing some readers of its own:
 
```clojure
(def default-readers
  {'crc/ns kw-ns
   'crc/ref ref-obj})
```

Any keyword prefaced with `#crc/ns` will resolve following keyword as such:

- keyword without ns e.g. `:keyword` will be resolved as current namespace keyword `::keyword`
- keyword with ns e.g. `:s/keyword` will be resolved as based on current namespace alias list e.g. `:clojure.spec.alpha/keyword`

Any keyword prefaced with `#crc/ref` will be replaced with the referenced key from elsewhere in EDN.

You can load the file by saying:

```clojure
(defrest "file:doc/t6/t6.edn" :edn-key :api-map)
```

Although in most situations it's best to load from classpath:

```clojure
(defrest "classpath:t6/t6.edn" :edn-key :api-map)
```

Add -Djava.protocol.handler.pkgs=org.my.protocols to enable custom protocols. 

After all is done, the part named by `:edn-key` option is used for the actual definition of the API, otherwise
the value of the whole EDN file is used.

## Repetitive parameters

Often you have clusters of parameters that repeat often, like having `sort`, `sort-dir` on all list operations.

When using EDN you can invent a reader function that will add those parameters to the vector tagged by the reader.

When using map specification you can simply use normal functions to modify to defintion.

So let's go back to **[keyword based definition](t6-keyworded.clj)** and modify that.

### **[CODE: Definition functions](t6-fns.clj)**

We added a few more endpoints dealing with issues.

You will notice that we added `list-params` function which adds 3 params to the given parameter vector.

And we'll reuse issue query parameters in multiple places. We've added a value `issue-query` which
is use in 3 places where we have same query parameters.

The gains in our case are small, since it's only used two times, 
but imagine describing an API that has same 3 parameters on a few dozen endpoints.

Also note how it adds `&` as needed.

### Dealing with endpoints that break pattern

It is common to have an API where 95% of endpoints return JSON (and thus warrants the use of :json-responses option),
and yet have 5% of endpoints where that isn't the case.

One way to deal with this, that might not be immediately apparent, 
is to realize that there is no reason to limit yourself to a single `defrest`.

Simply use two `defrest` with different defaults or options. E.g.:

```clojure
(defrest {"majority" ... define 95% of endpoints here})
(defrest {"special" ... define 5% of endpoints here} :json-bodies false)
```

Or find the minority cases and use the extras map to override the default:

```clojure
(defrest {"special" {"endpoint" {GET (get-file {:as :bytes})}}})
```

Here we override the default `:as :json` for outstanding endpoints on a case by case basis.
